
Partitioning Methods
------------------------

Horizontal Partitioning
Vertical Partitioning - data is distributed in columnar fashion
Directory-Based Partitioning - create a lookup service that knows your current partitioning scheme and abstracts it away
                               from the DB access code. So, to find out where a particular data entity resides,
                               we query the directory server that holds the mapping between each tuple key to its
                               DB server. This loosely coupled approach means we can perform tasks like adding servers
                               to the DB pool or changing our partitioning scheme without having an impact on the application.

Partitioning Criteria
-------------------------

Key or Hash-based Partitioning
List partitioning
Round-robin partitioning
Composite Partitioning

Common Problems of Partitioning
----------------------------------

1) Joins and Denormalization - Performing joins on a database that is running on one server is straightforward,
                               but once a database is partitioned and spread across multiple machines it is often not
                               feasible to perform joins that span database partitions. Such joins will not be performance
                               efficient since data has to be compiled from multiple servers.
                               A common workaround for this problem is to denormalize the database so that queries that
                               previously required joins can be performed from a single table. Of course, the service
                               now has to deal with denormalization’s perils, such as data inconsistency.

2) Referential integrity - trying to enforce data integrity constraints such as foreign keys in a partitioned database can be extremely difficult.
3) Rebalancing - we need rebalancing because,
                        - The data distribution is not uniform
                        - There is a lot of load on a single partition
                 we have to create more DB partitions or have to rebalance existing partitions,
                 which means the partitioning scheme changed and all existing data moved to new locations.
                 Doing this without incurring downtime is extremely difficult.
                 Using a scheme like directory-based Partitioning does make rebalancing a more palatable experience
                 at the cost of increasing the complexity of the system and creating a new
                 single point of failure (i.e. the lookup service/database).
